CMP Module Description 2025/26
Module code CMP-6057A Module Organiser Jeannette Chin
Title Advanced Web Development
Description (published on UEA website)
This module builds on the year one module “Web Based Programming” and the year two
module “Software Engineering” so that students can build more complex Web applications
using advanced Web technologies. This module expands on the basic coding learned in
CMP-4011A. It covers current industry frameworks used to develop rich, secure, and
maintainable Web applications.
To take this module, a good understanding of Asynchronous JavaScript is essential, and
students must have already mastered basic JavaScript programming skills. Note: JavaScript
is not Java. In this module, students will learn advanced JavaScript programming
techniques for building Client-side driven Web Applications. Current technologies used to
enhance performance will also be discussed and explored.
WebML is a next generation app technology pioneered by Google which will be covered as
well. Students will have the opportunity to learn first-hand knowledge developed by the
core team at Google and apply the technology in the applications that they develop.
Further, the module rounds out students’ software engineering skills, with emphasis on
learning appropriate practices such as version source control, testing and team
collaboration where they will gain further skills needed in the software development
sector.
Additional topics such as web security, and deployment may also be covered.
Learning Outcomes
1. Students will be able to use modern front-end frameworks and browser features to develop
complex web user interfaces
2. Students will be able to design and develop a significant web application that integrates front-end
and back-end components
3. Students will be able to practice employability skills through team working and presentations.
Formative assessment
Formative feedback on lab sheet exercises and later in the semester on coursework
exercises to be provided during in person lab sessions.
Summative assessment
No Title %
1 Implementing WebML 40
2 Web Application Development Project 60
Outline of content
Introduction to WebML and tensorflow.js
Running pre-trained ML model on a browser
Running customed ML model
Transfer learning in Tensorflow.js
Introduction to Client-side driven Web Development with REACT
JSX, Component, Properties, State and Context
REACT router, useState hook, and REACT toastify
REACT useEffect hook and Axios
Redux Toolkit
Node, database and putting all together
Pre-requisites: CMP-4011A, CMP-4010B, CMP-5012B, CMP-5046B
Other notes : To take this module, students must already have good JavaScript
programming skills, and familiar with Node and Express and Web development. Knowledge
of Database systems is also essentia